# TYPES-OF-SHOTS-IN-LIVE-SHOOT-VIDEOS
Whenever we make a video, we consciously choose to select the shots that would go into it. Every video we make at Orange Videos has several shots of different magnifications. Filmmakers usually do this to lay emphasis on a particular subject, thus helping achieve the desired narrative goal.  Let’s have a look at the types of shots that we typically use in our videos.  Extreme Wide Shot: This shot gives the audience an idea about the world where the story takes place. Whether it’s a desert, a city or outer space, the extreme wide shot is an essential tool for world-building in narrative videos.  Wide/Long Shot: A wide shot is often referred to as a long shot, it puts the subject in context with the backdrop established in the extreme wide shot. You can see the character from head to toe and in relation to the location, they are in.  Two Shot The two-shot, as the name suggests, is the shot with two people in it. It is usually used to show two people in conversation. This shot is often used to show romance, conflict and action. It is the best way to get the reactions of two characters in one shot.  Medium Shot A medium shot, commonly referred to as a mid-shot, shows the character from the waist up. It’s all about the details. In this shot, one can get more detail than in a wide shot. Medium shots are usually used in dialogue scenes where the focus is on the character's body language - whether they have crossed their arms when they talk or they use a lot of hand gestures while talking about something particular.  Medium close up Right in between the close-up and the medium shot, the medium close-up shows a character from the shoulders up. This shot is used to give more detail about the character. This shot is usually used with the character on the phone, or eating something. A Medium close-up can be used to build up to an emotional climax.  Close up A close-up shot is used to frame a character’s face. It is a more intimate shot to look into the character’s emotions and mannerisms that the audience might miss in a medium shot. A close-up need not be just of the face. A cutaway like a foot-tapping, glasses falling, or water dripping can be shown using a close-up shot.  Extreme Close-up Extreme close-ups frame even tighter on the face (or the subject), highlighting a specific feature. It usually frames a particular part of the face like an eye or the mouth. It is far more intimate than a normal close-up and can emphasize the emotion that the actor is conveying.  These are the shots that we use to create a shot list. These shots are used to maximise the coverage i.e. to cover a scene in as many shots as possible to make it easier for the editor to cut. This is another creative way in which videos can be made beautiful visually. To know more: https://www.orangevideos.in/types-of-shots-in-live-shoot-videos
